# Build a Website

[See the reasons 'why' below](#themes).

**Table of Content**

[TOC]

## Static Webpage

A static web page (sometimes called a flat page/stationary page) is a web page that is delivered to the user exactly as stored, in contrast to dynamic web pages which are generated by a web application or a web framework.

Consequently, a static web page displays the same information for all users, from all contexts, subject to modern capabilities of a web server to negotiate content-type or language of the document where such versions are available and the server is configured to do so.

Static web pages are often HTML documents stored as files in the file system and made available by the web server over HTTP (nevertheless URLs ending with ".html" are not always static). However, loose interpretations of the term could include web pages stored in a database, and could even include pages formatted using a template and served through an application server, as long as the page served is unchanging and presented essentially as stored.

Static web pages are suitable for the contents that never or rarely need to be updated. However, maintaining large numbers of static pages as files can be impractical without automated tools. Any personalization or interactivity has to run client-side, which is restricting.

Advantages of static website:

- Cheap to develop.
- Cheap to host.
- No database or server-side logic.
- Quick to develop.

Disadvantages of static website:

- Content can get stagnant.
- Requires web development expertise to update site.
- Site not as useful for the user.

## Needs

- A static site generator (instead of building everything yourself).
- A theme (each website as a goal).
- A simple text/code editor (such as notepad++, gedit, etc.).
- Git or another version control system (push the local PC content to the online repository and pull from it).
- A code repository to host the website:
	- [Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/).
	- [GitHub](https://github.com/).
	- [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/)
	- [Sourceforge](https://sourceforge.net/)
	- [And many more](https://blog.profitbricks.com/top-source-code-repository-hosts/)
	- Warning! Some are closed, some changed names, etc.

## Static Site Generators

- [Top Open-Source Static Site Generators](https://www.staticgen.com/)
- [Static Site Generators](https://staticsitegenerators.net/)

## Themes and Goals

- 1-pager or personal card: a simple online presence, aocial media hub, a starting point around a name, a topic.
- Academic.
- Blogging.
- Gallery: showcase audio, video, images (or links to), samples; good for storytelling or explaining a project.
- Knowledge management, documentation.
- Portfolio: showcase work, experience, competences, etc.
- Professional: showcase a business, teams, products, services, etc.
- Project management.

For mobile devices and tablets, make sure the theme is 'responsive'. Some themes analytics-ready or SEO-optimized.

## Code Repository vs Pastebin

A code repository:

- Archive where portions of source code are stored.
- Publically available.
- Used by open source software developers and other projects with co-developers.

A pastebin:

- Online repository that allows its users to upload snippets of text, usually samples of source code.
- For public viewing, sharing and, in some cases, editing.